---
layout: post
title:  Pairing Tour Reflections Part 1
date:   2017-07-13 07:04:00 -0600
categories: Pairing Tour
---
For the past week I've been pairing with other crafters. I've learned quite a few things from them. My first few days I spent at AMA with Anda. We went through a couple of stories and had a demo the following day. She was working on an Angular front end with Becca. I noticed Anda was quite thorough about double checking the robustness of her code. After she would complete a feature she would check if the tests passed, make sure it passes through a linter, verify on the app her feature worked, and check her code diff to make sure something couldn't be written better. The AMA team had a slack channel and it was a place that Anda checked multiple times a day to communicate with her team members if she had any questions on stories or if there were any urgent stories. Some team members were more familiar with parts of the product vs others (ex. front end vs back end). So sometimes it was helpful to ask clarifying questions to some team members. I also noticed, especially with a front end app, strict TDD doesn't always make sense. Sometimes you may just want to see if you can get a feature to work. And sometimes it's faster to work without the tests. 

The demo was an interesting experience for me as that's something I've had little exposure to during my apprenticeship. The demo is a time to show the client what you've been working on. The AMA demo was well attended by decision makers at the company. During this I especially understood the importance of double, and triple checking your feature because it would be a bad time for your feature to break. It's also helpful to have others team members check your feature. During the demo, I realized it's a great time to ask the client questions if you're unclear about a particular workflow. 

The next few days, I switched to Gamut with Justin and Jason. Here they are working on a Clojure app to create something called short descriptions. I immediately noticed it is a completely different work culture to AMA, and it's just the two of the them compared to the large team at AMA. Throughout my pairing, I noticed how much they reach out to each other and work together. At some point the time spent trying to work through a problem on your own is not time efficient compared to reaching out to your team member. I found that TDD and tests in general can be useful, but usually not as useful as trying out the feature itself to really be sure. Everyone that I paired with so far has been extremely careful with measuring the accuracy of their new feature. Jason even wrote a script to measure the accuracy of a feature. When I was pairing with Jason, he took wide use of the command line tools and showed me how powerful they can be.

Overall, I learned to double and triple check your work for accuracy. Since we are creating software for clients it's extra important to verify that the features work. Switching between clients so quickly also helped me notice that consulting is not just about switching technologies but also about shifting work cultures and contexts surrounding the client. At AMA, I needed to learn some medical terminology, but at Gamut I needed to learn about various different products like power tools and office supplies. So far, I've found it helpful to work with other crafters to learn how they solve and interact with a client. 
